- [Narrator] Before we get too deep,
let's take a look at what serverless is,
and how it operates at a conceptual level.
Now, many times you may hear the word serverless
and immediately think, well, there's no server.
Well, that's not true.
There obviously is a server.
The difference here is that you are paying for operations
not for the server itself.
And there's a reason for this.
This allows the cloud provider
to aggregate a whole bunch of functions
instead of you dedicating that VM hardware for downtime.
So again, you're not paying to run a VM,
you're paying for the operations.
But there is still a server
even though this technology name is serverless.
Another aspect is you are not managing the time of VM.
Now even in cloud where the VM is controlled
by cloud infrastructure,
you still have maintenance of a running VM,
whatever form of compute it is.
So that is where the benefit comes from,
is not only are you not paying 24 hours a day,
seven days a week for the VM,
but you're not managing it.
Dealing with upgrades, dealing with nodes dying,
dealing with any of the other aspects
that come with management of the VM
even in cloud infrastructure.
Now this may a little bit confusing
as to why this is offered.
And the key here is that it provides maximum utilization
of the compute time itself.
A cloud provider can take and pair cyclical workloads
such that the maximum capacity of the VM
is achieved throughout the entire day,
as opposed to you out in the VM,
where it's only achieving maximum throughput
at given times of the day.
Now this allows the provider to leverage many workloads
on a group of VMs instead of you getting the leverage
of that group yourself.
This allows them to maximize the value again
and do so in a way that is cost-effective for you
and for them.
Now, there are many, many workloads that this applies to
that make it very attractive.
Now, I want to take a look at this concept
of cyclical workloads.
Now, I'm going to give you a very exaggerated view
of a cyclical workload,
and I have never seen a real one that is this cyclical,
but, I have seen workloads that mimic this,
is just not a pure sine wave
which is what I'm going to provide.
Now, the idea here is that we have a single process
that is running,
and you'll see throughout the day, throughout the week,
throughout the year that you have peak times
and valleys within this workload.
Now, again, this varies by provider,
and it varies by situation.
But you'll see these peaks and valleys
throughout the life cycle of an application
running on a single VM.
Now in the serverless world,
we can take and add another cyclical workload
on this series of VMs.
And what you see here
is that even though we still have peaks and valleys
of a single flow,
we've now filled those peaks and valleys
with a another process,
such that the peak of one may mimic the valley of another.
And we're getting more utilization on this VM pool.
Now, if we add yet another workflow,
you will see that we've reduced the time
where we're not under peak workload,
and we've reduced the time where we're not under a valley
to be as small as possible.
Now, obviously a VM is not going to just run
three serverless functions,
ideally, it's going to run hundreds or thousands
in a pool of VMs,
and this allows them to get maximum throughput
across the workload the entire time.
Now you may step back in question this whole idea
of cyclical workloads,
but I encourage you to take a look at what actually happens
on your services.
If you run cron operations,
you'll see that they peak and then they go dormant
for a period of time.
You can see this same utilization across industries,
look at something like e-commerce,
where during the holiday shopping season,
you see a ramp up in technology usage
and then a ramp down after the holiday season is over.